# jupytext.vim

[Vim][1]/[Neovim][2] plugin for editing [Jupyter notebook][3] (ipynb) files
through [jupytext][4].

This is a successor to the [`ipynb_notedown.vim` plugin][5].


## Installation

1.  Copy the `jupytext.vim` script to your vim plugin directory (e.g. `$HOME/.vim/plugin`). Refer to `:help add-plugin`, `:help add-global-plugin` and `:help runtimepath` for more details about Vim plugins.
2.  Restart Vim.


## Usage

When you open a Jupyter Notebook (`*.ipynb`) file, it is automatically converted from json to markdown or python through the [`jupytext` utility][4], and the result is loaded into the buffer. Upon saving, the `ipynb` file is updated with any modifications.

In more detail, opening a file `notebook.ipynb` in vim will create a temporary file `notebook.md` or `notebook.py` (depending on `g:jupytext_fmt`). This file is the result of calling e.g.

    jupytext --to=md --output notebook.md notebook.ipynb

The contents of the file is loaded into the buffer instead of the original `notebook.ipynb`. When saving the buffer, its contents is written again to `notebook.md`, and the original `notebook.ipynb` is updated with a call to

    jupytext --to=ipynb --from=md --update --output notebook.ipynb notebook.md

The `--update` flag ensures the output for any cell whose corresponding input in `notebook.md` is unchanged will be preserved.

On closing the buffer, the temporary `notebook.md` will be deleted. If `notebook.md` already exist when opening `notebook.ipynb`, the existing file will be used (instead of being generated by `jupytext`), and it will be preserved when closing the buffer.


## Configuration

The following settings in your `~/.vimrc` may be used to configure the plugin:

*   `let g:jupytext_enable = 1`

    You may disable the automatic conversion of `ipynb` files (i.e., deactivate this plugin) by setting this to 0.

*   `let g:jupytext_fmt = 'md'`

    The format to which to convert the `ipynb` data. This can be any format that the `jupytext` utility accepts for its `--to` parameter (see `jupytext --help`), except for `'notebook'` and `'ipynb'`.

*   `let g:jupytext_filetype_map = {}`

    A mapping of `g:jupytext_fmt` to the filetype that should be used for the buffer (`:help filetype`). This determines the syntax highlighting.  You may use this setting to override the default filetype. For example, to use the 'pandoc' filetype instead of the default 'markdown' for the 'md' fmt, define

        let g:jupytext_filetype_map = {'md': 'pandoc'}

*   `let g:jupytext_print_debug_msgs = 0`

    If set to 1, print debug messages while running the plugin (view with `:messages`)



[1]: http://www.vim.org
[2]: https://neovim.io
[3]: http://jupyter.org
[4]: https://github.com/mwouts/jupytext
[5]: https://github.com/goerz/ipynb_notedown.vim
